

***

### Human Activity

***

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate an ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis.

One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained: 

<http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones>

Here are the data for the project: 

<https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip> 


### Description of analysis files

***

Files in project</span>

File name | Description
------------- | -------------
UCI HAR Dataset | This is a folder that contains the raw datasets.
run_analysis.R | An R-script to combine and manipulate the raw data and create a tidy dataset.
tidy_data.txt | Tidy dataset generated by run_analysis.R
README.md | Decription of the project requirement, composition, and approach
CodeBook.md | Description of variables, the data, and any transformations performed to clean up data


Files in <span style="color:blue">~/project/UCI HAR folder</span>. Files not necessary for run_analysis.R are omitted.

File name | Description 
--- |--- 
subject_train.txt | Subject identifiers for the training dataset
X_train.txt | Training dataset 
y_train.txt | Activity labels for the training dataset 
subject_test.txt | Subject identifiers for the test dataset 
X_test.txt | Test dataset  
y_test.txt | Activity labels for the test dataset 
features.txt | names of all measured features 
activity_labels.txt | Activity names and labels

### How the tidy dataset is created

***

1) Download the zip file containing the raw data</br>
2) Unzip the file to a folder in the working directory. In this folder, you will find the following 6 files: </br> 
<span style="color:blue">subject_train.txt</span>, <span style="color:blue">X_train.txt</span>, <span style="color:blue">y_train.txt</span>, <span style="color:blue">subject_test.txt</span>, <span style="color:blue">X_test.txt</span>, <span style="color:blue">y_test.txt</span></br>
4) Merge these 6 files to create one dataset</br>
5) Use the information in <span style="color:blue">activity_labels.txt</span> to replace the numeric activity labels with appropriate descriptive activity names in the dataset</br>
6) Use the information in <span style="color:blue">features.txt</span> to label the dataset with descriptive variable names</br>
7) Generate a tidy dataset and save it to a text file <span style="color:blue">tidy_data.txt</span></br>


***
